# Expand
1. I think some developers think it's a pain point is because there are so many rules to be aware of and how we need to becareful. For example when exploring the Basic Operators and Type Conversion, it can be very confusing as to why those are the given outputs with specific operations. Additionally, many developers are used to strict typing where one variable cannot change types, so it maybe hard for them to wrap their heads around. The changing of data types during runtime can be confusing and forces developers to understand the rules beforehand which adds on to JavaScript's learning curve.
2. I think the developers made JavaScript loosely typed is because they want to ensure the website does not completely break if there is a bug or mismatch of data type. Suppose if there is a simple mismatch of a data type when the user entered, then it would be a pain for them if the whole website just broke. Similarly to how JavaScript is loosley typed, asynchronous features will allow the website or program to run continuously without breaking. When your website starts to break or any inconvenience, the user will be unhappy that it's not working and may not come back to your website.
3. The key difference between compiled languages and interpreted languages is that compiled languages has a compile stage where a compiler can check for any mistakes whether its spelling errors or mismatch of data types before execution. Interpreted languages are executed off the bat during runtime and during runtime it determines the data types or variable names. There is no way of throwing the errors or warning prior to runtime and will give errors after the code is executed. JavaScript is an interpreted language. The benefits of it being interpreted is that it allows for changing of variable types during runtime and we don't need to have a dedicated compiler for the language. The downsides is that sometimes it can be difficult to debug due to little to no warnings on variable types and can cause runtime errors.
4. I think the reason why we are focusing on vanilla JavaScript is because everything else builds on top of HTML, CSS and JavaScript. Most applications or websites can be built with these 3 tools. Frameworks are used to make structuring of sites and applications easier to manage. We focus on vanilla JavaScript as many frameworks are built on JavaScript. The drawbacks of not learning frameworks is that some industries standards require to use a specific framework and larger applications can be harder to maintain. Some frameworks make it easier for developers to make and share their work with other people due to syntaxing or simplified functions.
5. I think this lab is important because when we want to build an interactive website or web application, we need to use JavaScript. When using JavaScript we need to understand some of the basic concepts as not everything can be easily translated from Java or CSS like how data types works in JavaScript. Additionally, we learn about how pipelining works where we test the code before it is merged into the main branch. The lab provides the tools and when utilized properly, we can build our desired project efficiently.